README.md, before:

# Laravel Controllers

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Saritasa/php-laravel-controllers.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Saritasa/php-laravel-controllers)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/Saritasa/php-laravel-controllers/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/Saritasa/php-laravel-controllers)
[![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/saritasa/php-laravel-controllers.svg)](https://github.com/Saritasa/php-laravel-controllers/releases)
[![PHPv](https://img.shields.io/packagist/php-v/saritasa/laravel-controllers.svg)](http://www.php.net)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/saritasa/laravel-controllers.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/saritasa/laravel-controllers)

Controllers for common UI and endpoints in Laravel,
like API authentication, password change, login page, etc.

## Laravel 5.x

Install the ```saritasa/laravel-controllers``` package:

```bash
$ composer require saritasa/laravel-controllers
```

If you use Laraval 5.4 or less,
or 5.5+ with [package discovery](https://laravel.com/docs/5.5/packages#package-discovery) disabled,
add the ControllersServiceProvider service provider in ``config/app.php``:

```php
'providers' => array(
    // ...
    Saritasa\Laravel\Controllers\ControllersServiceProvider::class,
)
```

## Available controllers

There are 2 types of controllers:
* **Web** - interactive UI for user - traditional Laravel controllers.
  Many of them just provide out-of-the-box Laravel functionality,
  using built-in traits.
* **Api** - for programmatic integration with 3d party applications,
  like mobile apps (iOS, Android) or single-page HTML applications,
  built on modern frontend frameworks - [React.JS](http://reactjs.com),
  [AngularJS](https://angularjs.org/), etc.
  API utilizes [Dingo/Api](https://github.com/dingo/api) library
  and custom extensions for it: [saritasa/dingo-api-custom](https://github.com/Saritasa/php-dingo-api-custom)

Controllers, described below, exist, but you
must register routes for them manually

### BaseApiController
Base API controller, utilizing helpers from Dingo/API package.
Recommended to use as base controller for other API controllers.

#### Methods

* function json($data, IDataTransformer $transformer = null): Response
* function validate(Request $request, array $rules, array $messages = [], array $customAttributes = [])

**Example**:
```php
class UserApiController extends BaseApiController
{
    public function __construct(UserTransformer $userTransformer) {
        parent::__construct($userTransformer);
    }

    public function editUserProfile(Request $request, User $user): Response {
        $this->validate($request, $user->getRuels());
        $user->fill($request->all());
        $user->save();
        return $this->json($user);
    }
}
```

### JWTAuthApiController
Authenticate API Controller. Uses JWT authentication
Utilizes [Dingo\Api JWT Auth](https://github.com/dingo/api/wiki/Authentication#json-web-tokens-jwt)
 settings and underlying [tymon\jwt-auth](https://github.com/tymondesigns/jwt-auth)

**Example**: routes\api.php:
```php
app('api.router')->version(config('api.version'), ['namespace' => 'Saritasa\Laravel\Controllers\Api'],
  function (\Dingo\Api\Routing\Router $api) {
    // Authentication
    $api->post('auth', 'AuthController@login');                             // Login
    $api->put('auth', 'AuthController@refreshToken');                       // Refresh expired token
    $api->delete('auth', 'AuthController@logout')->middleware('api.auth');  // Logout
});
```

### ForgotPasswordApiController, ResetPasswordApiController
These controllers are responsible for handling password reset emails.
Utilize native Laravel password management without UI, in JSON API.

**Example**: routes\api.php:
```php
app('api.router')->version(config('api.version'), ['namespace' => 'Saritasa\Laravel\Controllers\Api'],
  function (\Dingo\Api\Routing\Router $api) {
    $api->post('auth/password/reset', 'ForgotPasswordApiController@sendResetLinkEmail');
    $api->put('auth/password/reset', 'ResetPasswordApiController@reset');
});
```


## Contributing

1. Create fork, checkout it
2. Develop locally as usual. **Code must follow [PSR-1](http://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-1/), [PSR-2](http://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-2/)** -
    run [PHP_CodeSniffer](https://github.com/squizlabs/PHP_CodeSniffer) to ensure, that code follows style guides
3. **Cover added functionality with unit tests** and run [PHPUnit](https://phpunit.de/) to make sure, that all tests pass
4. Update [README.md](README.md) to describe new or changed functionality.
5. Add changes description to [CHANGES.md](CHANGES.md) file.
6. When ready, create pull request

### Make shortcuts

If you have [GNU Make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/) installed, you can use following shortcuts:

* ```make cs``` (instead of ```php vendor/bin/phpcs```) -
    run static code analysis with [PHP_CodeSniffer](https://github.com/squizlabs/PHP_CodeSniffer)
    to check code style
* ```make csfix``` (instead of ```php vendor/bin/phpcbf```) -
    fix code style violations with [PHP_CodeSniffer](https://github.com/squizlabs/PHP_CodeSniffer)
    automatically, where possible (ex. PSR-2 code formatting violations)
* ```make test``` (instead of ```php vendor/bin/phpunit```) -
    run tests with [PHPUnit](https://phpunit.de/)
* ```make install``` - instead of ```composer install```
* ```make all``` or just ```make``` without parameters -
    invokes described above **install**, **cs**, **test** tasks sequentially -
    project will be assembled, checked with linter and tested with one single command

## Resources

* [Bug Tracker](http://github.com/saritasa/php-laravel-controllers/issues)
* [Code](http://github.com/saritasa/php-laravel-controllers)
* [Changes History](CHANGES.md)
* [Authors](http://github.com/saritasa/php-laravel-controllers/contributors)

Commit message:

Update README - require semantic versioning convention

README.md, after:

# Laravel Controllers

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Saritasa/php-laravel-controllers.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Saritasa/php-laravel-controllers)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/Saritasa/php-laravel-controllers/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/Saritasa/php-laravel-controllers)
[![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/saritasa/php-laravel-controllers.svg)](https://github.com/Saritasa/php-laravel-controllers/releases)
[![PHPv](https://img.shields.io/packagist/php-v/saritasa/laravel-controllers.svg)](http://www.php.net)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/saritasa/laravel-controllers.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/saritasa/laravel-controllers)

Controllers for common UI and endpoints in Laravel,
like API authentication, password change, login page, etc.

## Laravel 5.x

Install the ```saritasa/laravel-controllers``` package:

```bash
$ composer require saritasa/laravel-controllers
```

If you use Laraval 5.4 or less,
or 5.5+ with [package discovery](https://laravel.com/docs/5.5/packages#package-discovery) disabled,
add the ControllersServiceProvider service provider in ``config/app.php``:

```php
'providers' => array(
    // ...
    Saritasa\Laravel\Controllers\ControllersServiceProvider::class,
)
```

## Available controllers

There are 2 types of controllers:
* **Web** - interactive UI for user - traditional Laravel controllers.
  Many of them just provide out-of-the-box Laravel functionality,
  using built-in traits.
* **Api** - for programmatic integration with 3d party applications,
  like mobile apps (iOS, Android) or single-page HTML applications,
  built on modern frontend frameworks - [React.JS](http://reactjs.com),
  [AngularJS](https://angularjs.org/), etc.
  API utilizes [Dingo/Api](https://github.com/dingo/api) library
  and custom extensions for it: [saritasa/dingo-api-custom](https://github.com/Saritasa/php-dingo-api-custom)

Controllers, described below, exist, but you
must register routes for them manually

### BaseApiController
Base API controller, utilizing helpers from Dingo/API package.
Recommended to use as base controller for other API controllers.

#### Methods

* function json($data, IDataTransformer $transformer = null): Response
* function validate(Request $request, array $rules, array $messages = [], array $customAttributes = [])

**Example**:
```php
class UserApiController extends BaseApiController
{
    public function __construct(UserTransformer $userTransformer) {
        parent::__construct($userTransformer);
    }

    public function editUserProfile(Request $request, User $user): Response {
        $this->validate($request, $user->getRuels());
        $user->fill($request->all());
        $user->save();
        return $this->json($user);
    }
}
```

### JWTAuthApiController
Authenticate API Controller. Uses JWT authentication
Utilizes [Dingo\Api JWT Auth](https://github.com/dingo/api/wiki/Authentication#json-web-tokens-jwt)
 settings and underlying [tymon\jwt-auth](https://github.com/tymondesigns/jwt-auth)

**Example**: routes\api.php:
```php
app('api.router')->version(config('api.version'), ['namespace' => 'Saritasa\Laravel\Controllers\Api'],
  function (\Dingo\Api\Routing\Router $api) {
    // Authentication
    $api->post('auth', 'AuthController@login');                             // Login
    $api->put('auth', 'AuthController@refreshToken');                       // Refresh expired token
    $api->delete('auth', 'AuthController@logout')->middleware('api.auth');  // Logout
});
```

### ForgotPasswordApiController, ResetPasswordApiController
These controllers are responsible for handling password reset emails.
Utilize native Laravel password management without UI, in JSON API.

**Example**: routes\api.php:
```php
app('api.router')->version(config('api.version'), ['namespace' => 'Saritasa\Laravel\Controllers\Api'],
  function (\Dingo\Api\Routing\Router $api) {
    $api->post('auth/password/reset', 'ForgotPasswordApiController@sendResetLinkEmail');
    $api->put('auth/password/reset', 'ResetPasswordApiController@reset');
});
```


## Contributing

1. Create fork, checkout it
2. Develop locally as usual. **Code must follow [PSR-1](http://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-1/), [PSR-2](http://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-2/)** -
    run [PHP_CodeSniffer](https://github.com/squizlabs/PHP_CodeSniffer) to ensure, that code follows style guides
3. **Cover added functionality with unit tests** and run [PHPUnit](https://phpunit.de/) to make sure, that all tests pass
4. Update [README.md](README.md) to describe new or changed functionality
5. Add changes description to [CHANGES.md](CHANGES.md) file. Use [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) convention to determine next version number.
6. When ready, create pull request

### Make shortcuts

If you have [GNU Make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/) installed, you can use following shortcuts:

* ```make cs``` (instead of ```php vendor/bin/phpcs```) -
    run static code analysis with [PHP_CodeSniffer](https://github.com/squizlabs/PHP_CodeSniffer)
    to check code style
* ```make csfix``` (instead of ```php vendor/bin/phpcbf```) -
    fix code style violations with [PHP_CodeSniffer](https://github.com/squizlabs/PHP_CodeSniffer)
    automatically, where possible (ex. PSR-2 code formatting violations)
* ```make test``` (instead of ```php vendor/bin/phpunit```) -
    run tests with [PHPUnit](https://phpunit.de/)
* ```make install``` - instead of ```composer install```
* ```make all``` or just ```make``` without parameters -
    invokes described above **install**, **cs**, **test** tasks sequentially -
    project will be assembled, checked with linter and tested with one single command

## Resources

* [Bug Tracker](http://github.com/saritasa/php-laravel-controllers/issues)
* [Code](http://github.com/saritasa/php-laravel-controllers)
* [Changes History](CHANGES.md)
* [Authors](http://github.com/saritasa/php-laravel-controllers/contributors)
